README.markdown, before:

# SciRate

[![Build Status](https://github.com/scirate/scirate/actions/workflows/ci.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/scirate/scirate/actions/workflows/ci.yaml)

[SciRate](https://scirate.com/) is an open source rating and commenting system
for [arXiv](http://arxiv.org/) preprints. Papers are upvoted and discussed by
the community, and we sometimes play host to more [in-depth peer
review](https://scirate.com/tqc-2014-program-committee).

Bug reports and feature requests should be submitted as [GitHub
issues](https://github.com/scirate/scirate/issues).

## Setting up for development

Development is best done locally using [docker compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/):

```sh
docker compose build
```

In order to run the app, you will need a `local_settings.rb` file, and a
`config/database.yml` file. You can copy these from the CI versions:

```sh
cp local_settings.rb.ci local_settings.rb
cp config/database.yml.ci config/database.yml
```

Then, spin up all the servers,

```sh
docker compose up -d
```

You need to make sure elasticsearch is fully up; it can take 10 seconds or so, you can verify with
```sh
while true; do sleep 1; curl localhost:9200/_cat/health; done
```

You can check to make sure something is at <localhost:3000>. You should see SciRate.

> If nothing is there, it's possible something went wrong. One common message is something like  `A server is already running. Check ... tmp/pids/server.pid.` Deleting `./tmp/pids/server.pid` fixes this issue.

From here, you can run the tests.

```sh
docker compose exec web rspec
```

After that, you can sync to arXiv.org and then play around with the system
locally:

```sh
docker compose exec web rake arxiv:feed_import
docker compose exec web rake arxiv:oai_update
```

and visit <http://localhost:3000> and you will be looking at SciRate!

It may not be possible to make new users locally. If you get stuck, you can disable the `unless verify_recaptcha` code block in `app/controllers/users_controller.rb` and it should work.

## Testing

There is a fairly comprehensive series of unit and integration tests in
`spec`. Running `docker compose exec web rspec`, if the entire docker compose
system is up, will run them.

## Deploying

Locally, you can run `./deploy.rb`. You will need `ssh` access to the production server for this to run successfully.

On the server, the logs are in `/home/scirate/scirate/log/`.

## Automatic updates

The website updates automatically every hour with a `sync.sh` script in a crontab on the server. The crontab uses a file lock via `flock`.
* It first calls `arxiv_paper_sync.rake`. This checks if it's the right time to update, and if so, downloads new papers via `arxiv_oai_update.rake`. This uses the custom [arxivsync](https://github.com/scirate/arxivsync) package.
* Then it calls `arxiv_author_sync.rake`. This checks if it's the right time to update, and if so, links the arXiv author identifiers specified by users with the list of papers on arXiv.org via `arxiv_authorship_update.rake`.


## Moderating

In the database, each user (in `users`) has an `account_status` column. Change this to `admin` or `moderator` for extra powers on the site.

* Both admins and moderators can hide inflammatory recent comments.
* Admins can see a dashboard `https://scirate.com/admin`, set a global alert (i.e. for announcing upcoming site maintenance), and act as other users.
* A user can also have `account_status` set to `spam`.

There is also a feature to lock comments of a paper. This can be done by changing a flag in the database (there is an open issue to make this accessible in the frontend https://github.com/scirate/scirate/issues/335).

## Acknowledgements

- Maintained by [Kunal Marwaha](https://kunalmarwaha.com/about)
- Previously maintained by [Noon van der Silk](https://github.com/silky)
- Original website by [Dave Bacon](http://dabacon.org)
- [Bill Rosgen](http://intractable.ca/bill/)
- [Aram Harrow](http://www.mit.edu/~aram/)
- [Draftable](https://draftable.com/)

Commit message:

feat: implement JSON API for papers and feeds

README.markdown, after:

# SciRate

[![Build Status](https://github.com/scirate/scirate/actions/workflows/ci.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/scirate/scirate/actions/workflows/ci.yaml)

[SciRate](https://scirate.com/) is an open source rating and commenting system
for [arXiv](http://arxiv.org/) preprints. Papers are upvoted and discussed by
the community, and we sometimes play host to more [in-depth peer
review](https://scirate.com/tqc-2014-program-committee).

Bug reports and feature requests should be submitted as [GitHub
issues](https://github.com/scirate/scirate/issues).

## Setting up for development

Development is best done locally using [docker compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/):

```sh
docker compose build
```

In order to run the app, you will need a `local_settings.rb` file, and a
`config/database.yml` file. You can copy these from the CI versions:

```sh
cp local_settings.rb.ci local_settings.rb
cp config/database.yml.ci config/database.yml
```

Then, spin up all the servers,

```sh
docker compose up -d
```

You need to make sure elasticsearch is fully up; it can take 10 seconds or so, you can verify with
```sh
while true; do sleep 1; curl localhost:9200/_cat/health; done
```

You can check to make sure something is at <localhost:3000>. You should see SciRate.

> If nothing is there, it's possible something went wrong. One common message is something like  `A server is already running. Check ... tmp/pids/server.pid.` Deleting `./tmp/pids/server.pid` fixes this issue.

From here, you can run the tests.

```sh
docker compose exec web rspec
```

After that, you can sync to arXiv.org and then play around with the system
locally:

```sh
docker compose exec web rake arxiv:feed_import
docker compose exec web rake arxiv:oai_update
```

and visit <http://localhost:3000> and you will be looking at SciRate!

It may not be possible to make new users locally. If you get stuck, you can disable the `unless verify_recaptcha` code block in `app/controllers/users_controller.rb` and it should work.

## API Access

SciRate supports JSON responses for several key areas. You can test these locally using curl or by appending .json to the URLs:

Individual Papers: GET /arxiv/:paper_uid.json returns paper metadata, abstracts, and comments.

Feeds & Categories: GET /search.json or GET /arxiv/:category.json returns lists of papers with their scite counts and author details.

This data structure includes is_scited boolean flags, which respect the current user's session if a cookie is provided.

## Testing

There is a fairly comprehensive series of unit and integration tests in
`spec`. Running `docker compose exec web rspec`, if the entire docker compose
system is up, will run them.

## Deploying

Locally, you can run `./deploy.rb`. You will need `ssh` access to the production server for this to run successfully.

On the server, the logs are in `/home/scirate/scirate/log/`.

## Automatic updates

The website updates automatically every hour with a `sync.sh` script in a crontab on the server. The crontab uses a file lock via `flock`.
* It first calls `arxiv_paper_sync.rake`. This checks if it's the right time to update, and if so, downloads new papers via `arxiv_oai_update.rake`. This uses the custom [arxivsync](https://github.com/scirate/arxivsync) package.
* Then it calls `arxiv_author_sync.rake`. This checks if it's the right time to update, and if so, links the arXiv author identifiers specified by users with the list of papers on arXiv.org via `arxiv_authorship_update.rake`.


## Moderating

In the database, each user (in `users`) has an `account_status` column. Change this to `admin` or `moderator` for extra powers on the site.

* Both admins and moderators can hide inflammatory recent comments.
* Admins can see a dashboard `https://scirate.com/admin`, set a global alert (i.e. for announcing upcoming site maintenance), and act as other users.
* A user can also have `account_status` set to `spam`.

There is also a feature to lock comments of a paper. This can be done by changing a flag in the database (there is an open issue to make this accessible in the frontend https://github.com/scirate/scirate/issues/335).

## Acknowledgements

- Maintained by [Kunal Marwaha](https://kunalmarwaha.com/about)
- Previously maintained by [Noon van der Silk](https://github.com/silky)
- Original website by [Dave Bacon](http://dabacon.org)
- [Bill Rosgen](http://intractable.ca/bill/)
- [Aram Harrow](http://www.mit.edu/~aram/)
- [Draftable](https://draftable.com/)
